the legend of the bermuda triangle
it's one of the few mysteries we still
can't solve
let's rewind back about 600 years
the story begins with an italian man
he wanted to sail across the ocean to
reach asia a continent
rich with spices silk minerals you know
that kind of stuff
getting there by land would take
ridiculously long so he figured
hey why not to build some sturdiest
ships and gather a couple of sailors and
set off to asia
what could go wrong that man was
christopher columbus by the way
in 1492 with a little help from spain's
royal family
he embarked on his journey everything
was going well
i mean apart from totally going the
wrong way but
as he got to the end of his voyage he
noticed something very strange
he didn't know it at the time but he was
sailing through the infamous bermuda
triangle
the bt the point of no return the
scary place between bermuda puerto rico
and florida
there are loads of stories of ships
boats and planes disappearing into this
mysterious realm
some were found years later and some
disappeared off the face of the earth
lying undiscovered at the bottom of the
ocean
maybe we know one thing for sure we have
no clue
what's going on over there people have
been trying to figure it out for years
but nothing zip nada
so what was it that christopher columbus
saw that fateful evening
what freaked him out so bad according to
his logs
columbus saw a huge flash in the sky
i don't care how tough you are if you're
sailing around with no clue where you
are
then you see a massive flash right in
front of you
you'd find me hiding below deck chewing
on a lemon or something
that's not the only sea mystery out
there not by a long shot
heard of the kraken a giant squid that
can swallow a whole ship
no you're lucky imagine cruising on a
ship
wind in your hair hands on your hips
like you know those old pirate movies
then a huge squid creeps up on you from
deep down in the cold dark water
it wraps its tentacles around the ship
and drags the whole thing to the bottom
of the ocean
good thing you packed a life raft how
about a colossal sea
serpent chasing your boat at full speed
looking for a midday snack
that thing is called a leviathan and you
better hope it's not real
or sirens mean but beautiful creatures
of the sea
they like to hang out on rocks and sing
karaoke
their magical voices attract sailors who
sail their ships right
into the sharp rocks now mermaids on the
other hand
totally awesome they like karaoke too
but they're not into the whole
chip smashing thing good old mermaids
they're
real right and let's not forget
peg-legged pirates are looting raiden
saying r every two seconds
what else do those guys do all day so
back to our italian friend
columbus maybe he just saw a
thunderstorm
duh why didn't he think of that well i'm
not 600 years old and i wasn't there
how on earth would i know weird thing is
he never mentioned any huge waves or
heavy rain no strong winds either
just a single flash in the sky maybe
some dolphins were setting off fireworks
or something
after the flash columbus wrote that his
compass needle started dancing
all over the place this keeps getting
weirder and weirder
his report ends with a friendly turtle
with sunglasses jumping out of the water
pushing the three ships to shore and
everyone went out to get hotdogs
only kidding so what happened
scientists now think they've got the
answer drumroll
[Music]
an asteroid crashed into the ocean case
closed
but wait what about that stuff with the
compass what does that have to do with
an asteroid
asteroids come in all different shapes
and sizes but they're like chocolate
eggs
the best parts on the inside they're
packed full of minerals and metals worth
trillions of dollars
scientists are even trying to figure out
how to land on a big one
and mine it it'd have to be a really big
one
i'm talking about an asteroid the size
of rhode island
why because chances are it'd have a
magnetic field around it
making it way easier to land on
scientists think that the magnetic
fields around some asteroids
can last for millions of years mystery
solved maybe captain christopher
columbus's compass went cuckoo crazy
because of an asteroid crashing right in
front of him
that actually might explain some other
strange bermuda tails
about a hundred years ago the uss
cyclops left barbados on its way to
baltimore
and sailed right through the middle of
the bermuda triangle
it never arrived search teams spent ages
looking
but they couldn't find anything it just
vanished
just like that in 1945
five military planes vanished without a
trace
they flew right over the bermuda
triangle
so if there is an asteroid sitting at
the bottom of the sea somewhere
why is it still causing problems 500
years later
radar and old school compasses rely on
the earth's magnetic field
radars how they track flights all around
the world a faulty radar reading
that would be a problem try putting a
magnet near a compass
and see what happens the compass needle
is its own little magnet
always pointing north but if you put it
next to a strong enough magnet
the needle will spin around to face it
what if that compass
is all you've got to guide you to shore
chinese ship captains were the first to
invent compasses
before that people used to sail along
the shore
or just to islands that they could see
having compasses
meant those early sailors could write
down where they went so other people
could get there too
so now that we have all this new tech
the question is
is that asteroid even still down there
how would we get down there to find out
it wouldn't be the first ever deep sea
dive
we've already been down the mariana
trench the deepest one on earth
the mariana trench makes climbing mount
everest look like a joke
only two people have ever been down
there because it's so deep
the water pressure is insane the only
way down
is in a high tech tank something that
won't crush in on itself under pressure
and that kind of thing doesn't come
cheap
down there just a lot of darkness quiet
and beauty
and a bunch of weird animals the bermuda
triangle isn't as deep as the mariana
trench
so we might get down there one day we
might see that asteroid that columbus
saw
this time with millions of tiny fish on
it who've made it their home
all those lost ships and planes that
disappeared
should be down there somewhere or we
might see something
we were never expecting we might find
ancient species of squid sharks and
turtles
with special skills like night vision
you might find gold
loads of ships full of gold and silver
sank on their way back to europe from
the americas some wrecks had evidence of
fire
some were split in two most of them are
still out there
[Music]
japanese divers once found an ancient
underwater pyramid looking thing
they don't even know for sure if it was
natural or man-made
up in the baltic sea someone snapped a
bizarre sonar image of
a spaceship or just a strange-looking
rock
a swiss lake was hiding a sweet vintage
car
after it was dragged to shore and
cleaned it was sold for over 350
thousand dollars
and the tires still had air in them
japanese fishermen once found a small
round boat that had a glass top on it
there was a red-haired woman inside some
thought it was a fairy tale come true
some thought she was a magical creature
and some thought
she was a spy the bermuda triangle
sounds scary
but the islands near it are awesome
bermuda is a tiny island where they
speak english
and the other points of the triangle are
the tip of florida and the american
island of puerto rico